docs: OlaresManifest 0.12.0 spec update (#3247)
beclab/Olares: docs/developer/develop/package/manifest.md

Reviewer: The example still uses `olaresManifest.version: '0.10.0'`, while the page introduces 0.12.0 as the latest Manifest version. This may confuse users who copy the example as a starting point. Should we update it to 0.12.0 and include the newly introduced fields (like `workloadReplicas` and `spec.accelerator`) to reflect the absolute latest best practices?

Every **Olares Application Chart** should include an `OlaresManifest.yaml` file in the root directory. `OlaresManifest.yaml` provides all the essential information about an Olares App. Both the **Olares Market protocol** and the Olares depend on this information to distribute and install applications.

:::info NOTE
Latest Olares Manifest version: `0.12.0`
- Modified the `apiVersion` field: added support for `v3` shared applications; the previous `v2` version of shared applications will be deprecated.
- Added `spec.accelerator` field for GPU resource declaration
- Added `workloadReplicas` field to declare all workload replica counts
- Added `overlayGateway` field for L2 overlay LAN discovery support
- Added `LLMGatewaySupported` in options for LLM Gateway support
- Added `appCommon` and `externalData` permissions
- Added `templateOnly` field to mark template-type applications

> :::

Reviewer: Should we add a callout below this note to ask users to give special attention to certain fields when upgrading to 0.12.0?
such as 

:::tip Upgrading to Manifest 0.12.0
If you maintain an existing app chart, pay special attention to `apiVersion`, `workloadReplicas`, and `permission.externalData` before upgrading. These fields contain breaking changes or new mandatory requirements that may require updates to your existing configurations.
:::

## olaresManifest.type

- Type: `string`
- Accepted Value: `app`, `middleware`

Olares currently supports 2 types of applications, each requiring different fields. This document uses `app` as an example to explain each field.

> 

Reviewer: In the previous versions, `recommend` was an accepted type. It may be helpful to explicitly mention that `recommend` has been removed to avoid confusion for developers familiar with the old spec.

:::info
The `recommend` type is no longer included in the current OlaresManifest specification. Use `app` or `middleware` according to your application type.
:::

## apiVersion
- Type: `string`
- Optional
- Accepted Value: `v1`, `v3`
- Default: `v1`

For shared applications, use version `v3`, which will be installed in the `<appname>-shared` namespace. For other applications, use `v1`.

:::info NOTE
`apiVersion: 'v2'` is used for shared applications on Olares OS version 1.12.5 and earlier. Support for this version will be gradually discontinued after the release of 1.12.6. Please migrate your shared applications to `v3` as soon as possible.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning Deprecation notice
For new shared applications, use `apiVersion: 'v3'`. Existing shared applications should migrate to `v3` to ensure future compatibility because support for `v2` will be gradually discontinued after Olares OS 1.12.6.
:::
```

Whether the app requires read and write permission to the `Data` folder. If `.Values.userspace.appData` is used in the deployment YAML, then `appData` must be set to `true`.

### appCommon

- Type: `boolean`
- Optional

> Whether the app requires read and write permission to the `App Common` folder (cross-node, cross-app shared files, such as models). Use `{{ .Values.userspace.appCommon }}` in the deployment YAML to get the App Common directory path.

Reviewer: Whether the app requires read and write permission to the `App Common` folder. When set to `true`, the app can access files shared across multiple apps or nodes, such as AI models. Use `{{ .Values.userspace.appCommon }}` in the deployment YAML to get the App Common directory path.

### externalData

- Type: `boolean`
- Optional

> Whether the app requires read and write permission to the `External` directory, typically used for accessing mounted NAS or other external disk data. In version 0.11.0, applications have External access enabled by default. Starting from version 0.12.0, you need to explicitly declare this field.

Reviewer: This field includes a breaking behavior change from 0.11.0 to 0.12.0. I suggest highlighting it with a warning block directly under the field.

Whether the app requires read and write permission to the `External` directory, typically used for accessing mounted NAS or other external disk data.

:::warning
Starting from Manifest 0.12.0, external access is no longer enabled by default. If your app needs access to mounted NAS or external disks, you must explicitly set `externalData: true`. If omitted, permission will be denied.
:::

When set to `true`, Olares forces the application to run under user ID `1000` (as a non-root user).

### accelerator
- Type: `map`
- Optional

> Declares GPU resources required by the application. For apps that need GPU, use `spec.accelerator` to declare resources instead of `spec.requiredMemory` or similar fields.

Reviewer: Can we better clarify this field？

Declares GPU or hardware accelerator resources required by the application. Use this field for accelerator-aware apps, such as LLMs, image generation, video processing, or AI model serving. 

:::info NOTE
When `accelerator` is used, all related resource requirements (CPU, memory, disk, and GPU memory) must be declared inside this block, instead of relying on the root-level `spec.requiredMemory` or `spec.requiredCpu` fields.
:::

**Supported Modes:**
- `nvidia`, `nvidia-gb10`, `apple-m`, `strix-halo`: For specific GPU/NPU hardware.
- `cpu`: Used as a fallback or to explicitly force CPU-only computation in accelerator-aware applications.

:::info Example
```yaml
spec:
  accelerator:
    mode: nvidia  # Supported modes: nvidia, nvidia-gb10, apple-m, strix-halo, cpu
    limitedCpu: 7000m
    requiredCpu: 150m
    requiredDisk: 50Mi
    limitedDisk: 500Gi
    limitedMemory: 40Gi
    requiredMemory: 5Gi
    requiredGPUMemory: 1Gi
    limitedGPUMemory: 24Gi
```
:::

## workloadReplicas
- Type: `map`

> - Optional

Reviewer: This field is marked as optional, but the description says that starting from 0.12.0, apps must add this variable to declare replica counts for all workloads. This may look contradictory to developers.

Could we clarify whether this field is required for Manifest 0.12.0 apps?
If it is strictly required for 0.12.0, it would be better described as:

- Required (for Manifest 0.12.0 and later) / Optional (for earlier versions)

Declares the replica count for each workload in the chart. Starting from 0.12.0, apps must add this variable in `OlaresManifest.yaml` to declare replica counts for all workloads.

:::info Example
```yaml
workloadReplicas:
  affine: 1
```
:::
The corresponding `values.yaml` must also include this value for backward compatibility:
```yaml
workloads:
  affine:
    replicaCount: 1

> ```

Reviewer: The current example splits `OlaresManifest.yaml` and `values.yaml` into separate blocks, which makes the mapping relationship a bit implicit. How about explicitly stating the naming rule and combining the code blocks so developers can compare them at a glance.

For example:

The workload name under `workloadReplicas` must match the corresponding workload name under workloads in `values.yaml`. This inclusion is required for backward compatibility.

```yaml
workloadReplicas:
  affine: 1
```
```yaml
workloads:
  affine:
    replicaCount: 1
```

> - Type: `map`

Reviewer: Should it be `list<map>` ?

  limitedMemory: 10240Mi
  limitedCpu: '4'
```

> :::

Reviewer: The example here does not explicitly show `mode: cpu`. To avoid confusion, should we add `mode: cpu` to the example?

This application supports deploying multiple independent instances within the same Olares cluster. This setting does not apply to paid applications or clients of shared applications.

### templateOnly
- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`
- Optional

> When set to `true`, this application is marked as a template app. The app cannot be installed directly. An instance must be created before installation. If this option is enabled, `allowMultipleInstall` must also be set to `true`.

Reviewer: How about adding the reason to help developers understand why these two fields are coupled?

When set to `true`, this application is marked as a template and cannot be installed directly. An instance must be created first. Because a template app is designed to spawn multiple instances, `allowMultipleInstall` must also be set to `true`.

### LLMGatewaySupported
- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`
- Optional

When set to `true`, the application supports LLM Gateway calls. Mainly used for LLM services.

### overlayGateway
- Type: `map`
- Optional

> Declares the app's support for L2 overlay LAN discovery. When enabled, other apps can access this app via IP address in the LAN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declares the app's support for L2 overlay LAN discovery, enabling other apps to access it via an IP address in the local network. This is typically used for media servers or local network services.
```
